The Joe Rogan experience.
How I got introduced to you. I I'd heard about reservoir dogs,
but the first film I saw was pulp fiction. Mm-hmm <affirmative>.
And I saw pulp fiction with this girl that I was dating when I first moved to
Los Angeles.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> and I remember being in man's Chinese theater watching
this. Yeah. And for me it was like this crazy change in life. And.
That was in the first, that was in the first few weeks of it opening. Yeah.
Cuz that's where it opened. Yeah.
Uh, crazy change in my life, moving to Los Angeles and then seeing this film.
And then I remember very clearly, like at the end of the film,
like even in the middle of the film going,
this is the craziest movie I've ever seen in my life.
And this scene it's symbolized to me. Like the world world was changing.
Like everything was changing. It was so wild and so crazy.
It was a film, not, it was unlike anything I'd ever seen before all the,
the different timelines, how you interwove everything together. But the,
the violence and the chaos and the humor mm-hmm <affirmative> of all of it.
Like people walked outta that movie theater up. Yeah.
And I remember thinking like, wow, like the, the world is different.
Like sometimes you'll see a work of art, a something,
and you'll say that thing just changed everything. It just,
it was so wild that it, it,
it influenced so many other films afterwards.
They tried to be like a pulp fiction movie or they tried to be wild. Well,
people.
Would ask me about that and they'd go, Hey,
did that of really bug you when there was a period of,
it seemed like five years in the nineties where like every crime film kind of
had this like ironic bit and,
and they talked about TV shows and played music in a weird way. And yeah.
And everybody was a smart. Right. Um, and they asked me like, well,
does that, did that bother you? And I go, well, no,
it doesn't bother me when I don't think any of them are as good as mine.
So it just makes mine look better and better.
And my dialogue look better and better, but you know,
one of my favorite directors is se Leoni and I always considered,
I was doing two traditional gangster films, like, you know,
Scorsese kind of good fellow kind of movies,
what he was doing to traditional westerns when he did his spaghetti westerns.
So then the fact that mine hit, and now the fact that I've it not,
it wasn't that they were just trying to do pulp fiction or reservoir dogs.
They were trying to exist in the same sub sub genre of crime film that I had
created,
which is what all the other spa Getty westerns that came after Leon's had done.
So the fact that it wasn't, they were doing just reservoir dogs or pulp fiction.
Ripoffs uh,
I created a sub genre in gangster films that did not exist before.
And they were trying to fill that sub genre. And that was awesome.
<laugh>.
That's gotta be a wild. It was great. I created a.
Sub, I had affected gangster film. I mean,
by that point to do kind of a Scorsese kind of thing was like almost passe.
Yeah.
Well you brought back John Travolta. Yeah. Uhhuh, which is.
Pretty wild too. Well, I remember even asking somebody, I go, uh, okay,
well people say Tarantino esque, what do they mean?
And there was a guy I knew he was a, a, he's like a film analyst, his name,
Dave SCO. And he goes, well,
okay. Just to give you an idea. It's like, okay, so in bad boys or yeah,
I think maybe no, it's like bad boys. Like go, well again, bad boys. Okay.
You have a couple of henchmen working for the bad guy and they're sitting in
their car and all of a sudden they have a conversation about an,
I love Lucy episode. Okay. That wouldn't have happened without you.
<laugh> yeah.
<Laugh> it's true. Mm-hmm <affirmative> yeah. Yeah. Well, what is that from?
I mean, where have you had this, uh, this flare for references and then this,
uh, this way of layering.
That just comes from being gen X, man. I mean, that was, uh,
that was the whole thing about like, uh,
about that generation is the idea that, um, okay. In the, okay.
The generation before us, that like lived through the sixties,
they had the sixties, they had the AMA in the six,
they had all that sixties music.
Um, and they looked down on the generation that grew up in the sixties, uh,
in the seventies. Like you didn't have that, any of that,
you didn't have the music that we had. Well,
maybe we didn't have the music you had. We had our music,
but what we did have is we had television.
We had the Saturday morning cartoon two that we dug, we had schoolhouse rock.
We had all the TV shows. We liked, we had speed racer.
We had all these kind of things and they meant something to us.
And, you know, um, kids back then who,
if their parents didn't let them watch TV at a certain point, well,
the parents might have actually had like the best intentions,
but they were actually robbing their children of the pop cultural glue.
That's gonna tie them to their generation when they get older. Mm. And so,
you know, we had a, the ABC movies of the week. I mean, we just, you know,
we had all that stuff and we had great movies.
If you're going out and seeing the movies of new Hollywood, we had all that.
And so, um, when we got older, it, it,
it was about talking about that stuff. That was,
that was what was worth talking about.
And then to actually have characters in a movie, talk about that.
That was making them sound realistic. And to be specific about it.
You remember that old sitcom? No, no, no. Talk about, no, you mean,
you mean Alice? Okay. So talk about, you talk about Mel and Alice.
Catch new episodes. The Joe Rogan experience for free, only on Spotify,
watch back catalog JRE videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of a Rogan experience.